<strong>Journal Review: Crowd disasters as systemic failures: analysis of the Love Parade disaster </strong>The article was about the lessons learned from so-called Love Parade disaster, one of the most notable examples of "crowd disaster" in recent years. During the revival of a dance festival, Love Parade, in Duisburg, Germany, on a July day in 2010, something unthinkable occurred: 21 deaths and 500 injuries. The authors hypothesized: Is 'crowd panic' the main culprit for the tragedy? The authors say no. I believe they proved the case by debunking the misunderstandings. The article aims to definitively sort out the noises from the signals: What were precise causes? What were the concrete action plans that could have prevented the incident. The authors also extend the lessons learned to other situations that are less tangible, yet related situations that are, in essence, "crowd disasters" – the Financial Crisis of 2007. Included in the statistical methodologies used to revisit the day of the event was an analysis of the maximum capacity of visitors during the festival: Specifically, what was the maximum number of visitors that the venue can hold each hour and each minute? In addition, the article included the 'heat map' thoroughly, overlaying it on top of the crowd to give a sense of the immediacy during the crucial hours. It brought forth vividly the now-deemed inadequate dimensions of the ramps used to usher people out and in from the musical event. The analysis also evaluated the space taken by the vendors and how they unwittingly contributed to the disaster. Another gem included in the analysis was the timeline according to the organizers that was mapped with the details of the crowd swelling as each minute passed.The authors displayed a considerate amount of facts to examine "Mass panic" or a stampede that has been commonly blamed for the deaths, a collective madness that gripped the audience temporarily. Is it the fault of a few people who misbehaved?Not likely, the authors concluded. Most people died between the staircase and the billboard, so it was easier for the media to categorize the victims of unruly "pushers" or those who fell while trying to climb up the stairs. The authors reasoned that the actual cause of asphyxia, most likely caused by intense pressure and anxiety. The victims simply could no longer breathe. As many fainted, they likely fell. You cannot get to those bodies unless the crowd collectively lift and carry them out. (That did not happen.)Overall, the authors seemed to have conducted an excellent analysis of walking the readers through what caused the stampede, step by step. It pointed out the unforgivable flaws from the organizers and police. The graph that showed the crowd density - the crowd trying to leave the main ramp through the tunnel in one spot - immediately conveyed the intensity of the fatalities. In addition, the analysis came closer to the truth by eliminating the likelihood of “crowd panic”, which should no longer be repeated as the cause of the tragedy.The analysis detailed the most important lesson of all - How not to repeat such disasters. For example, do not give up on police cordons; it only admits the failure of crowd control. Do separate the opposite flow directions so that it's easier for people to get in and out, something the Love Fest organizers did not do.In addition, pressure relief and evacuations plans need to be conducted for these kinds of events. Fences are also a bad idea because they're, in essence, just obstacles when people need to flee to avoid harms. The article brings together a larger point: Such preventable disasters erode citizens' faith in the government or any authorities that carry a level of trust on safety or security. The crowd disaster can also occur in finances, like banking failure due to the lack of proper "relief" or "exit" strategies. A national fiscal crisis, indeed, is a crowd disaster.
